1. Introduction

Tesla is a company based in Palo Alto, California. It was founded in 2003 with a mission to accelerate the world's transition to sustainable energy. The company has grown rapidly and now it operates in multiple areas: not just electric vehicles, but energy generation and storage too. Over the past 15 years, the automotive industry has adopted Tesla's disruptive strategy of horizontal integration, i.e. producing electric vehicles as well as the technology that powers them. By owning the sales and consumer support network, Tesla can further integrate and improve the selling experience and take advantage of selling products. This goes hand in hand with the CEO Elon Musk's own marketing and PR strategy. By releasing products and engaging consumers in a two-way interaction, for example on social media, the company is able to use word of mouth at a global level, creating effortless marketing campaigns. Furthermore, by adopting a range of marketing and advertising techniques, repeatedly publicly engaging with consumers over social media and pushing the agenda of environmental conservation and producing products of the future, Tesla and Elon Musk have heavily shaped the modern day's political economy. This includes not only its impact on the transport and energy sector, but through the cultural sentiment of desiring a greener, ecologically sustainable tomorrow. The company's strategy and first principles thinking have captured segments of the market because Model S and Model X have set records not just in demand and revenue in their classes but also in the large luxury vehicle class as a whole. Model 3 is designed for electric-powered performance; in fact, the company aims to produce the most reliable car, as it has the best acceleration, the safest and the most comfortable with all the latest technology like autopilot mode. Model 3 has already set a new standard for a consumer factor by receiving the highest satisfaction score of any car ever surveyed by Consumer Reports; it has also won every major industry award.

1.1 Company Overview

Tesla, Inc. was incorporated in 2003 and is headquartered in Palo Alto, California. Tesla designs, manufactures, and sells high-performance fully electric vehicles and energy storage products. The company is a publicly traded company listed on the Nasdaq stock exchange under the symbol "TSLA". The company has reported substantial growth in the number of sales of its electric cars over the past few years. It has sold over 245,240 units of its Model 3 car in 2018 while in 2020 it has sold over 365,240 units of the Model 3 car. Similarly, the number of sales of the Model S and Model X has also increased by 12% and 2% in 2020, whereas the sales of the energy storage products and solar energy products of the company continue to grow each year. Tesla, Inc.'s long-term growth and success depend on the company's ability to further expand its production capacity, develop efficiencies in its production processes, and manage the operational challenges associated with the mass production of electric vehicles and energy storage products. The company's automotive segment is further divided into two reportable segments, namely automotive sales and automotive leasing. The automotive sales segment engages in design, development, manufacturing, and sales and leases of electric vehicles, while the automotive leasing segment engages in the sale and leasing of sedans and SUVs. The company has multiple ongoing or planned research and development programs to continue the innovation in automotive sales. For example, one of the research and development programs initiated by Tesla, Inc. in 2016 is the development of a low-cost, high-energy, and high-power lithium-ion cells called the "4680" cell. The company also has ongoing projects in different fields such as solar products, cyber truck, robo taxis, and Model Y, and in the year 2020, the company has been successful in launching and production of these projects. Its automobile offerings include the Model S, Model 3, Model X, Model Y, and the upcoming Cybertruck; its energy storage products include the solar roof and the Powerwall. The company also offers multiple highly-differentiated electric vehicle powertrain components and systems to other original equipment manufacturers, including the sustainable energy industry. When we think about the future of self-driving cars, we typically focus on the advancements in technology and the companies that are pushing that technology forward. However, the future of autonomous cars is likely to be significantly impacted just as much by economics and consumer training as any technology breakthrough. Every major car manufacturer in the world is testing autonomous cars, but two companies have already made headway in the race and they are the furthest along. One is Waymo, the autonomous car company owned by Google's parent, and the other is Tesla with its Autopilot. Waymo has received much acclaim from federal and local officials for its safety record, and their self-driving cars are already shuttling passengers in a small area around Phoenix, AZ. However, Waymo cars are not for sale, and the company has no plan to be a car manufacturer. Instead, Waymo intends to partner with car manufacturers to license its technology and provide an autonomous driving system for their cars. On the other end, Tesla cars with Autopilot are becoming more popular among consumers.

1.2 Key Financials

The company's total revenue in 2019 was $24.58 billion. This represented a 14.52% increase over the prior year. The contribution of car sales to total revenue increased from 78.71% in 2018 to 83.80% in 2019. The revenue from energy generation and storage accounted for 6.68% of total revenue in 2019. The revenue from automotive sales surged by 16.17% in 2019. The gross profit rocketed by 38.07% to $4.07 billion in 2019 as compared to an increase of 27.36% in 2018. The vehicle delivery also increased by 139.82% in 2019. On the cost side, the cost of revenue escalated by 22.57% to $20.50 billion in 2019. In contrast, the operating expenses grew at a slower pace than the revenue and gross profit - 16.45% and 15.22% respectively. The net income also turned positive as the "Loss from operations" in 2018 resulted in the total expenses exceeding the revenue. The total asset increased from $29.74 billion in 2018 to $34.31 billion in 2019. The main reason for the increase in the total asset was the substantial increase in the current asset. The total current asset increased by 77.64% from 2018 to 2019. This was mainly due to the substantial increase in the cash and cash equivalents and the restricted cash, that were mainly driven by the capital raised. The success in car deliveries, the increase in total revenue and most importantly, the net profit in 2019 shown that the company has been doing very well. Moreover, the substantial increase in current assets also provided a solid foundation for the company's future development.
1.3 Market Presence

The key backbone and crux of a successful market strategy for any company is its market presence. In the case of Tesla Motors, based on its financial and sales track record, Tesla has proved that it has created a phenomenon and a very strong market for electric cars. The report, which is based on the Tesla company analysis, confirms that its unique marketing strategy that is different than traditional marketing methods is also a key factor behind Tesla's market presence. By using its market presence strategy, focusing on fan base and non-traditional marketing methods, Tesla can easily reduce its budget for marketing and boost up production. Last but not least, page 26 from the appendix also illustrates that there is a substantial growth in the number of Tesla Supercharger stations. The number of Tesla Supercharger stations has increased from 486 in 2014 to 1590 in 2017, with a growth rate of around 227%. This indicates that Tesla has achieved a sustainable competitive advantage in its operations. Such a voluminous rate of increase in the number of Tesla Supercharger stations globally would be attention for other players in the industry. Also, such a great effort on providing infrastructure for drivers to recharge their electric cars simultaneously. One of the key factors for market presence is to localize your productions or customize your products. The most effective way to understand customers is to look for feedback and what ideas are in the minds of customers. And that's why Tesla's reinvention surfaces with a localized strategy. For international electric car markets, page 24 from the appendix depicts that there is a significant relative large amount of Model 3 from Tesla in Singapore. This indicates that Tesla has made its market presence on an international level and successfully caught up with the needs and wants of global customers. This strategy not only can approach local customers to shorten the response time but also prevent market driving complaints from customers.

2. Product Analysis

Tesla has gained notoriety from its high-end electric vehicle offerings. Most notably, the company's "Model S" has received praise for its long battery range, high performance, and cutting-edge technology features. Tesla's "Model X" - an SUV option - has similar features and in December of 2019, its hail mary pickup truck design, "Cybertruck", has stirred the market with an unusual sharp-edged design. The product life cycle is most applicable to marketing theory. It is helpful for any company because with the help of this company can introduce a new product in the market, can alter a present product, or can withdraw a product from the market. The new car industry is incredibly competitive as the internal rivalry is destructively intense. The level of rivalry tends to be less during a few times but the competition remains high. This is due to the changing rate of consumer demands and the increasing likelihood of technological advancements. Also, it was risky and the uncertain customers put off buying until there was assurance and expectation for the demand grew. These include new entrants and the threat of substitutes and the bargaining power of the customers and that of the suppliers. Customers are more likely to switch to substitutes in response to price, and this is known as price sensitivity. This measures the extent to which the quantity demanded changes when the price of the product is unchanged. Cybertruck's back windows on front windows and it's made of heavy-duty glass which is bulletproof. However, on its first launch, the back windows break when we test by projecting a metallic ball to the window. But the front windows do not break. The target of Tesla knows how to drive their product in the market. Tesla management decided the first time to satisfy the valuable customers and then reduce the overall price of vehicles. Tesla desires to take the cost leadership strategy which offers a broad market with less cost. This strategy is useful for a particular group of consumers and focuses on a larger market. However, sharing details of the product's design often make the risk of imitation to competitors. Tesla refused to use conventional methods of marketing and prefers low-cost publicity. Tesla resources are effectively utilized if it gains the strategic advantage in the market. Also, the research and development of technology is necessary for the business. There are cars which run using gas fuel, diesel fuel, and electric power. But there is only one car using solar power. Continuous research and development in technology help product innovation, and Tesla gave the best innovation to the market - "Solar Roof".
2.1 Electric Vehicle Offerings

Tesla currently has three electric vehicle offerings: Model S, Model X, and Model 3. These three electric vehicles have separate positions in terms of performance and price, which can satisfy different groups of customers. For 2020, Tesla has introduced a new electric vehicle offering, Model Y, which is a crossover of Model 3 and Model X. Tesla positioned Model Y as a family-friendly SUV. Comparing to traditional gasoline vehicles, Tesla electric vehicles do not require gasoline. Tesla electric vehicle owners can charge the electric vehicle at home by plugging the vehicle into the charging unit. Tesla has built a charging network across the United States and globally. In the United States, there are thousands of Tesla charging stations covering almost the entire country. In addition, Tesla has supercharging stations in some areas to offer quick charging. Tesla owns and operates the charging network in the United States and other countries. When customers buy a Tesla electric vehicle, they can choose to purchase the full self-driving capability. This program will allow more active features to be enabled step by step through over-the-air software updates. The future is always optimistic and full of challenges. Tesla is keeping pushing the change from traditional gasoline vehicles to electric vehicles, and more and more hardware is becoming the backbone of the software. This also helps enhance driver and passenger safety on the road. With the effort of developing more different ranges of models, Tesla can expand the markets to people from various levels of income and become the leader of the electric vehicle market.
2.2 Autonomous Driving Technology

Leveraging significant investment, Tesla has rapidly innovated in autonomous driving technologies. In particular, the fully-integrated in-house hardware and software development enables the company to roll out new updates and features on a rolling basis, essentially fencing off challenges from rivals who normally apply a disparate system integrating LIDAR and other sensors. One of the cornerstones of autonomous driving technology is the adoption of cutting-edge Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies. The AI technologies underpinning the autonomous driving system have evolved from a combination of Neural Network technologies and experience from the existing Autopilot system. This advanced AI is powerful and clever enough to manage the massive data and also to flexibly adapt to different driving scenarios. The Neural Network technologies resemble the human brain and nervous system, allowing the system to train itself during actual driving in real traffic. As a result, with the increasing number of Tesla cars driving on the roads, the safety of autonomous driving will be further enhanced as the AI technologies "learn" accumulatively from user driving data. Through Machine Learning processes, the AI technologies will become more and more effective and accurate in predicting and making real-time responses to fast-changing traffic conditions. In technical terms, Tesla is equipping each car with a series of latest hardware necessary for autonomous driving, such as multiple cameras, ultrasonic sensors, and forward-facing radar. The data from those sensors are processed by the onboard computer in each car to build a full 360-degree view around the car and make real-time analysis of the data to facilitate complex autonomous driving tasks. For example, the four cameras positioned around the car provide real-time direct vision for the system to carry out lane and speed control, as well as object detection while driving autonomously. On top of the direct vision provided by the cameras, the twelve updated ultrasonic sensors not only complement this real-time picture on the touch screen but also constantly help to sense and automatically steer the car away from potential collisions with the surroundings. Also, the advanced new front-facing radar with enhanced processing provides twice the data and is effective even under adverse weather conditions. Such a data-intense and sensor-based autonomous driving system demands real-time data communication among those hardware, which requires adequate cybersecurity measures to ensure system security and integrity. Tesla has installed a series of security systems, such as end-to-end encryption, to prevent potential hacking, and the system is designed to bring the vehicle to a controlled stop should a potential threat be detected.
